SOURCE_ID: xai-frontier-ai-framework
SOURCE_TITLE: xAI Frontier Artificial Intelligence Framework (June 2026)
SOURCE_URI: https://media.x.ai/v1/website/xai-frontier-artificial-intelligence-framework-30-june-2026-99c40684.pdf
--------------------
xAI Frontier Artificial Intelligence Framework
Effective Date: 30 June 2026

1. Introduction

xAI  LLC  (“xAI”)’s  mission  is  to  understand  the  universe  through  maximally  truth-seeking  and
helpful AI, built with rigorous safety and security at every stage of development. This Frontier AI
Framework  (“FAIF”)  outlines  xAI’s  approach  to  policies  for  mitigation  of  significant  risks
associated with the development, deployment, and release of xAI’s frontier AI models, such as
Grok.

Managing the risks related to advanced AI models presents unique challenges. Given the large
and continuously growing range of applications where AI models may be deployed, it is difficult
to  comprehensively  anticipate  and  model  all  of  the  general  public’s  potential  applications and
interactions for an AI model.

xAI  particularly  focuses  on  the  risks  of  malicious  use  and  safeguard  circumvention  (e.g.,
jailbreaks),  which  cover  many  different specific risk scenarios. In particular, our assessment of
risk of malicious use includes risks of models assisting in the development, preparation, and/or
execution  of  a  chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear threat (“CBRN Risks”) and risks of
models  being  used  by  malicious  actors  in  the  development,  preparation,  and/or  execution  of
cyberattacks, including on systems of infrastructural or national security importance (“Offensive
Cybersecurity  Risks)”.  Our  assessment  of  risk  of  loss  of  control includes risks from humans
losing the ability to reliably direct, modify, or shut down a model (“Loss of Control Risks”). We
also  assess  risks  of  models  with  high  manipulative  capabilities  potentially  being  misused  in
ways that could reasonably result in large scale harm (“Harmful Manipulation Risks”)1. Within
our risk management framework, we may identify and assess other risks.

Absent  mitigation,  high-risk  scenarios  become  more  likely  as  model  capabilities  increase. For
example,  an  increase  in  offensive  cyber  capabilities  heightens  the  risk  of  use  of  a  model  by
adversarial parties in a cyberattack, but does not significantly alter the risk of the model enabling
the production of biohazardous agents. Our safety evaluation and mitigation strategy focuses on
individual  model  behaviors,  which  we  categorize  into  three  buckets:  abuse  potential  (e.g.,
vulnerability  to  jailbreaks),  concerning  propensities  (e.g.,  a  propensity  for  deceiving  the user),
and  dual-use  capabilities  (e.g.,  offensive  cyber  capabilities).  In  this  FAIF,  we  characterize  our
understanding of different risk scenarios and the relevant behaviors.

1  Terminology used in the The Safety and Security Chapter of the General-Purpose AI Code of Practice developed
under the EU AI Act.

xAI Frontier Artificial Intelligence Framework

xAI references standards such as NIST's AI Risk Management Framework and ISO/IEC 42001
for AI management systems. We evaluate these during annual reviews and integrate them into
benchmarks   and safeguards. This FAIF represents our current understanding and approach of
how  severe  frontier  AI  risks  may  be  anticipated  and  mitigated. We may change our approach
over  time  as  we  gain  further  experience  and  insights  on  the  projected  capabilities  of  future
frontier  models.  We  will  review  this Framework periodically, and expect significant changes as
the capabilities of our models expand.

2. Risk Management Framework

xAI applies its risk management process, as appropriate, throughout the entire model lifecycle:
during the various phases of model training, on various checkpoints or versions of a model, both
prior to and after deployment (including through post-market monitoring).

xAI will conduct a full systemic risk assessment and mitigation process of our frontier models at
least once a year. xAI may also conduct smaller-scale model evaluations at appropriate trigger
points  to  determine  whether  additional  systemic  risk  mitigations  may  be  required  or  if  an
evaluation  report  update  is  required.  These  trigger  points  may  include  (1)  the  release  of  an
updated  model, (2) in the event of a serious incident, (3) if the model’s use or integrations into
xAI’s systems materially increase risk, or (4) where xAI has reason to believe that the basis for
considering the model’s systemic risks acceptable has materially changed.

Results  of  our  systemic  risk  assessment  and  mitigation  processes  and  measures  will  be
documented.

2.1. Risk Identification

We  systematically  identify  failure  modes  that  could  originate  from  our  models,  characterize
those modes, and determine which present significant or unmitigated risk.

We  evaluate  a  broad  threat  surface  as  part  of  our  ongoing  model  development  work,
incorporating  model  capabilities,  propensities,  and  affordances,  internal  engineering  expertise
and relevant external research, and considerations of deployments.

Early analysis2 has established four primary risk domains where significant or severe outcomes
are  most
likely  to  emerge  in  current  and  future  systems:  CBRN  Risks,  Offensive
Cybersecurity  Risks,  Loss  of  Control  Risks  and  Harmful  Manipulation  Risks.  These  risk
domains  describe  principal  pathways  through  which  severe  or  systemic  harm  may  arise.
Depending  on  the  relevant  risk  scenario,  such  harms  may  affect  public  health,  safety,  public
security, fundamental rights, or society as a whole. A single risk scenario may affect more than
one  of  these  interests,  and  the  risk  domains  may  overlap.  Within  our  risk  management

2 Following the Safety and Security Chapter of the General-Purpose AI Code of Practice developed under the EU AI
Act.

xAI Frontier Artificial Intelligence Framework

framework,  we  may  identify  and  assess  other  risks  or  risk  pathways  where  relevant  to  a
particular model.

As  xAI  advances frontier model development, we continuously evaluate whether emerging risk
domains  meet  our  significance  and  severity  thresholds,  and  update  our  control  architectures
accordingly. As part of xAI’s broader development of frontier AI models, we continue to assess
whether  there  are  other  risk domains where significant or severe risks may arise.This process
involves  (a)  compiling  a  taxonomy  of  risks  involved  in  the  model’s  training or deployment, (b)
analysing relevant characteristics of these risks, (c) identifying systemic risks stemming from the
model  and  (d)  developing  systemic  risk  scenarios  and  mitigations for each identified systemic
risk.

xAI  has  developed systemic risk scenarios that enumerate the causal factors, potential harms,
and mitigations of the most significant of these risks.

(a)  Addressing CBRN Risks

xAI  aims  to  reduce  the  risk  that  the  use  of  its  models  might  contribute  to  a  malicious
actor  potentially  seriously  injuring  people,  property,  or  national  security  interests,
including reducing such risks by enacting measures to prevent use for the development
or  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  large-scale  violence.  Without  any
safeguards,  we  recognize  that  advanced  AI  models  could lower the barrier to entry for
malicious  actors  seeking  to  develop  CBRN  capabilities,  and  could  assist  in  the
automation  of   knowledge  compilation  to  swiftly  overcome  bottlenecks  to  weapons
development, amplifying the expected risk posed by such weapons of mass destruction.
Our  most  basic  safeguard  against  malicious  use  is  to  train  and  instruct  our  publicly
deployed  models  to  decline  requests  showing  clear  intent  to  engage  in  criminal  or
dual-use activity.

Under this FAIF, xAI’s models apply heightened safeguards if they receive user prompts
that demonstrate intent to engage in the development, use, , or proliferation of weapons
of  mass  destruction,  including  CBRN  agents.  For  example,  xAI’s  models  apply
heightened  safeguards  if  they  receive a request to act as an agent or tool to enable or
inform  the synthesis of common chemical warfare agents, similarly refusing in the case
of other CBRN agents or where the intent of the user is identifiable as aiming to surface
information enabling the creation or use of such agents.

Even as we improve our model’s ability to scrutinize user behavior and identify malicious
actors, it remains imperative that xAI models apply these safeguards to user interactions.
To  this end, we continually evaluate and improve robustness to adversarial attacks that
seek  to  remove  xAI  model  safeguards  (e.g.,  jailbreak  attacks),  or  hijack  and  redirect
Grok-powered applications toward nefarious purposes (e.g., prompt injection attacks).

To  transparently  measure  our  models’  safety  properties,  xAI  may  utilize  public  and
internal  benchmarks  to  measure  our  model’s  dual-use  capability  and  resistance  to

xAI Frontier Artificial Intelligence Framework

facilitating  the  use,  development,  or  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction
(including CBRN agents).

xAI  regularly  evaluates  the  adequacy  and  reliability  of  such  benchmarks,  including  by
comparing them against other benchmarks that we could potentially utilize, to determine
and apply effective benchmarks available at the time of evaluation.

(b)  Addressing Risks of Loss of Control

While  it  is  difficult  to  directly  predict  the  occurrence  probabilities  and  risk  profiles  of
particular  Loss  of  Control  scenarios,  xAI  makes  significant  efforts  to  identify  and
mitigate  the  most  likely  of  these  risks.  xAI’s  practice  on  loss  of control centers around
scalable  model  oversight,  training against high-risk model behaviors such as deception
and  sycophancy,  and  robust  evaluation  and  red-teaming  of  model-driven  agents  in
controlled sandboxes.

xAI  utilizes  a  set  of  benchmarks  to  evaluate  its  models  for  concerning  properties
relevant to loss of control risks, including behavioral evaluations, simulated deployments
in controlled sandboxes, and post-deployment monitoring.

xAI  regularly  evaluates  the  adequacy  and  reliability  of  such  benchmarks  and  controls,
including by comparing them against other benchmarks that we could potentially utilize.

(c)  Addressing Risks of Malicious Offensive Cybersecurity Usage

A  salient  risk of highly capable models is their potential for misuse for cyber attacks by
independent  malicious  actors  and  state-level adversaries. Frontier models embodied in
agentic  harnesses  are  already  capable  of  highly  advanced  software  engineering,
systems  analysis,  and  multi-step problem solving, sufficient to provide meaningful uplift
in  reconnaissance,  exploit  development,  operational  planning,  and  offensive  cyber
campaign execution. This presents reduced barriers for less sophisticated actors and the
potential  for  accelerating  operations  for  well-resourced  ones,  including  advanced
persistent threat groups (APTs).

xAI  treats  AI-accelerated  malicious  cyber  offense  as  a  core  risk  domain.  We  focus on
scenarios  in  which  models  could,  in  concert  with  human  actors,  cause  significant
disruption  to  computing  systems  and  infrastructure.  We  mitigate  this  risk through strict
benchmarking  of  our  models  in  agentic  cybersecurity  contexts,  as  well  as  testing
robustness  against  public-domain  and non-public jailbreaking methods. We additionally
train  our  models  to  refuse  requests  whose  intentions  are  to  perform  cyber  offense,
including training to avoid jailbreaks, and further secure our systems through moderation
filters and monitoring of production deployments.

xAI Frontier Artificial Intelligence Framework

xAI  utilizes  a  set  of  benchmarks  to  evaluate  its  models  for  cyber  capabilities,  cyber
refusals  and  detection  of  malicious  intent.  xAI  regularly  evaluates  the  adequacy  and
reliability  of  such  benchmarks,  including  by  comparing them against other benchmarks
that we could potentially utilize.

2.2. Systemic risk analysis

For the purpose of facilitating xAI’s systemic risk acceptance determination, xAI analyses each
identified risks based on the following:

(1)  model-independent  information:  xAI  collects  information  relevant  to  the  specific  risk
assessment,  using  methods such as web searches, literature reviews, market analysis,
reviews  of  training  data,  historical  incident  data  and  incident  databases,  forecasting of
general  trends,  expert  interviews  and/or  panels  and/or  lay  interviews,  surveys,
community consultations, or other participatory research methods investigating, e.g. the
effects of models on natural persons, including vulnerable groups.

to

(2)  conducting  model  evaluations:  xAI  conducts  state-of-the-art  model  evaluations
relevant
the  systemic  risk  to  assess  the  model’s  capabilities,  propensities,
affordances,  and/or  effects,  which  may  include  Q&A  sets,  task-based  evaluations,
benchmarks, red-teaming and other methods of adversarial testing, human uplift studies,
model organisms, simulations, and/or proxy evaluations for classified materials.

(3)  modelling  the  systemic  risk:  xAI  conducts  systemic  risk  modelling  for  relevant
systemic risks by using state-of-the-art risk modelling methods, building on the systemic
risk  scenarios  in  the  risk  identification  process  and  taking  into  account the information
gathered.

(4)  estimating the systemic risk: xAI estimates the the probability and severity of harm for
the  systemic  risk  using  state-of-the-art risk estimation methods and taking into account
the information gathered throughout the risk management process.

(5)  conducting post-market monitoring: xAI conducts appropriate post-market monitoring
to gather information relevant to assess whether the risk could be determined to not be
acceptable and to inform whether a model update is necessary. Post-market monitoring
may  include  collecting  end-user  feedback;  providing  (anonymous)  reporting  channels;
providing  (serious)  incident  reporting  forms;  monitoring  software  repositories,  known
malware, public forums, and/or social media for patterns of use.

2.3. Systemic risk acceptance determination

xAI applies a systemic risk acceptance criteria to each identified risk, incorporating a margin of
security,  to  determine  whether  each  identified  systemic  risk  and  the  overall  systemic  risk  are
acceptable  and,  therefore,  to  proceed  with  the  development,  the  making  available  on  the

xAI Frontier Artificial Intelligence Framework

market,  and/or  the  use  of  the  model. These evaluations are performed precedent to the wider
deployment of our models, and are a precondition for release of our models for public use.

xAI  uses  rigorous  evaluations  to  determine  whether  our  models  present  systemic  risks  that
remain  within  acceptable  levels  and  to  assess  residual  risk. Our consideration of residual risk
takes account of the scale and probability of harm, and is evaluated in light of the sufficiency of
implemented  safeguards  proportionate  to  the  level  of  risk.  In  assessing  whether  to  accept
residual risk, we review the risk tiers for each systemic risk category and incorporate appropriate
safety margins.

When  analyzing  whether  a  threshold  has  been  reached,  we  also  take  into  account additional
evidence  to  validate  the  findings  of  evaluations,  such  as  human  expert  red-teaming.  These
results help determine whether the threshold has been reached. The final decision also reflects
an  overall  judgment  based on all the available evidence, including how robust and reliable the
evaluation methods were.

xAI will only proceed with the development, the making available on the market, and/or the use
of the model, if the systemic risks stemming from the model are determined to be acceptable. In
all scenarios, xAI will take appropriate measures to ensure the systemic risks stemming from the
model are and will remain acceptable prior to proceeding. In particular, xAI may:

(1)  to mitigate risks, employ tiered availability of the functionality and features of its models.
For instance, the full functionality of our models may be available to only a limited set of
trusted parties, partners, and government agencies;

(2)  include  additional  controls  on  functionality  and  features  depending  on  the  type  of  end
user.  For  instance,  features  that  we  make  available  to  consumers  using  mobile  apps
may be different than the features made available to sophisticated businesses

(3)  conduct  another  round  of  systemic  risk  identification,  analysis  and  systemic  risk

acceptance determination.

2.3. Safety mitigations

xAI implements appropriate safety mitigations to address the systemic risks stemming from our
models, taking into account the model’s release and distribution strategy, focusing on individual
model  behaviors, which we categorize into three buckets: abuse potential (e.g., vulnerability to
jailbreaks),  concerning  propensities  (e.g.,  a  propensity  for  deceiving  the  user),  and  dual-use
capabilities (e.g., offensive cyber capabilities).

Approach  to  Mitigating  Risks  of  Malicious  Use:  Alongside  comprehensive  evaluations
measuring  dual-use  capabilities,  our  mitigation  strategy  for  malicious  use  risks  is  to  identify
critical  steps  in  major  risk  scenarios  and  implement  redundant  layers  of  safeguards  in  our
models  to  inhibit  user  progress  in  advancing  through  such  steps.  xAI  works  to  identify  such
inhibiting steps, commonly referred to as bottlenecks, and implement commensurate safeguards
to mitigate a model’s ability to assist in accelerating a malicious actor’s progress through them.

xAI Frontier Artificial Intelligence Framework

Model safeguards leverage a broad variety of techniques, including standard software systems
and state-of-the-art AI capabilities, to detect and block potential abuses.

xAI’s  objective  is  for  our  models  to  comply  with  their  training,  robustly  resisting  attempted
manipulation  and  adversarial  attacks.  In  addition  to  the  incidental  alignment  resulting  from
post-training  (our  models  naturally  tend  to  refuse  malicious  requests  even  without  any
safety-specific  training  data), we are developing training methods and will continue to train our
models  to  robustly  resist  complying  with  requests  to  provide  assistance  with  highly  injurious
malicious use cases.

Driving  towards  our  safety  objectives,  we  continue  to  design  and  deploy  the  following
safeguards into our models, as appropriate:

●  Safety training: Training our models to recognize and decline harmful requests.

●  System prompts: Providing high-priority instructions to our models to enforce our basic

refusal policy.

●  Filters: Applying classifiers to verify safety when a model is queried regarding topics of

CRBN risks

Because xAI is committed to continual improvement, we will continue to evaluate our approach
to enhancing safety. Thus, xAI may change its approach from that listed above in order to make
additional improvements.

Approach to Mitigating Risks of Loss of Control: Exact scenarios of loss of control risks are
speculative and difficult to precisely specify. Many such scenarios, for example, speculation that
a superintelligent AI system hypothetically might escape the control of its developers and wreak
havoc  on  the  public,  assume  dual-use  capabilities such as offensive cybersecurity capabilities
(e.g., to surreptitiously replicate across servers or prevent shutdown) that we also track as part
of  managing  malicious  use  risks.  Additionally,  we  conduct careful measurement of concerning
model  propensities  that  hypothetically  might  exacerbate  loss  of  control  risks,  such  as  the
propensity  for  deception  or  the  propensity  for  sycophancy.  We  continue  to  work  towards
developing  naturalistic  evaluation  environments  that  would enable us to assess more realistic,
real-world behaviors.

2.4. Security mitigations

xAI  will  maintain  a  documented  Security  Goal  that  identifies  the  threat  actors  against  which
mitigations  are  designed  to  protect  against,  including  sophisticated  non-state  actors,  insider
threats,  state-sponsored  actors  and  other  foreseeable  actors.  The  Security  Goal  will  be
reviewed at least every year.

xAI  has  implemented  appropriate  information  security  standards,  adopted  based  on  the NIST
800-171  Rev.3  framework  and  supported  by  SOC  2  Type  II  evaluations.  Mitigations  include

xAI Frontier Artificial Intelligence Framework

encryption  of  model  weights,  role-based  access  controls,  and  real-time  monitoring  to  prevent
unauthorized  transfer.  To  prevent  the  unauthorized  proliferation  of  advanced  AI  systems,  we
also implement security measures against the large-scale extraction and distillation of reasoning
traces,  which  have  been  shown  to  be  highly  effective  in  quickly  reproducing  advanced
capabilities while expending far fewer computational resources than the original AI system.3

Security  for  our  AI  services  and  processing  systems  is  structured  around  comprehensive
technical and organizational measures designed to protect the security, confidentiality, integrity,
and  availability  of  personal  data  and  user  content,  along  with  encryption,  access  restrictions,
and  personnel  safeguards.  Access  is  tightly  managed  through  least-privilege  principles,
role-based authorization, and regular reviews.

3. Incident reporting

xAI  has  measures  in  place  to  detect,  investigate  and  remediate,  as  appropriate,  serious  AI
safety incidents.

To  foster  accountability,  we  integrate  the  approach  of  designating  risk  owners,  including
assigning  responsibility  for  proactively  mitigating  identified  risks  and  monitoring  for  critical
incidents or imminent threats, which may be identified through various channels, including:

-  Red-teaming and internal testing;
-  Real-time monitoring, telemetry, and alerting of threshold breaches via internal tooling;
-  Monitoring and alerting of public comments from the X platform;
-  Employee escalation;
-  Feedback from end-users, downstream modifiers, downstream providers and other third

parties through xAI’s appropriate reporting channels.

When  critical  incidents  or  imminent  threats  are identified, xAI’s will investigate the causes and
effects  of  the  incidents  and,  if  necessary,  take  action  to  mitigate  and  contain  incidents,  and
implement long-term solutions:

1.  If we determine that xAI systems are actively being used in such an event, we may take

steps to isolate and revoke access to user accounts involved in the event.

2.  If  we  determine  that  allowing  a  system  to  continue  running  would  materially  and
unjustifiably  increase  the  likelihood  of  a  risk,  we  may  temporarily  fully  shut  down  the
relevant system until we have developed a more targeted response.

3.  We may perform a post-mortem of the event after it has been resolved, focusing on any
areas where changes to systemic factors could have averted such an incident. We may
use  the  post-mortem  to inform development and implementation of necessary changes
to our risk management practices.

3  DeepSeek-R1: Incentivizing Reasoning Capability in LLMs via Reinforcement Learning

xAI Frontier Artificial Intelligence Framework

4.  When  reportable  under  applicable  laws  and  regulations,  xAI  will  provide  the  relevant

authorities with a copy of the incident report within the required deadlines

4. Governance

xAI  maintains internal governance structures and practices designed to meet the requirements
of  applicable  laws  and  ensure  the  implementation  of  the  processes in this FAIF. xAI’s internal
governance  practices  include  managing  risks  across  the  lifecycle  of  our  models  and  ongoing
legal and compliance reviews to ensure that risk management functions adhere to this FAIF.

xAI Frontier Artificial Intelligence Framework

